Hi Folks -

By now I guess you know that our AP class has just taken some 
radical changes! Like – I can’t call it “ours” anymore. 
Now it’s “yours”…

In other words – before now I was leading you and trying my 
best to teach you what I know. That’s an awesome part of the 
process. It’s fun, and exciting. There are new ideas and new 
thoughts.

As James said – we have learned about everything you need for 
the AP Exam. Now you enter into the phase where you take ownership. 
You take control. You review everything we have done, make sure 
you understand it – so well that you can explain it to each other 
and code it from an empty screen. Now it has to become “yours”. 

I really did not intend to get fired – I was really surprised, as a 
matter of fact! But for you in this course – it is really perfect. 

The only thing you lose is a cheerleader. 

So, please – figure out a way to make sure everyone has a cheerleader… 
either you can have partners – or you can assign one person to cheer 
for everyone else (and then someone to cheer for the one). 

I do want to say – this movement of “ours” to “yours” is part of life. 
It is deep. And it is profound. 

Whenever I have been on the other side of this – I find that I carry 
memories of my teacher. I shudder to think of what kinds of memories 
you may be carrying of me! Whatever it is, I really hope it serves you 
well. 

You should take a look at my MVC code. M(odel), V(iew), C(ontroller) – 
is a common development scheme these days. The Model is the database 
tables and data. The View is how that is presented to the user. And 
the Controller is the communication between the two. Take a look. Copy 
the code and try adding more stuff into it… more menu options (in the 
View) and handle them (in the Controller) and access data (in the Model).

And you should all work on double arrays. Translate these into java:
http://netlab.cs.ucla.edu/~schoi/cs31/notes/array_practice.pdf

Oh, and you should all try to find an IDE you like! It’s time!

Best of the best, you guys! And… last thing – it will make FRCS Admin 
look really pathetic when you ALL get 5 on the AP Exam!

Best!
~Krug
